Employee Reflections    

Celebrate/Career:
The completion of the ML model development was of a great essence in the past year. After the final decisions on the pre-processing details and the conclusion on the final dataset to train the model on, which was an enduring process, a model that has the potential to bring substantial values to our organization is complete and ready to be put in use. Having a model running and allowing us to tune it base on any business requirements fills me with excitement for the future work on it and eventually, for its deployment as I am confident it will deliver impactful results.
Moreover, I would like to highlight my experience over the past year with building and enhancing BI reports, during which I had the opportunity to work in a new field, for me, within the organization. This experience has been instrumental in my professional growth, allowing me to develop new skills and gain a deeper understanding of our team’s operations and the process of building reports which provide beneficial insights for the business. By having the opportunity to work on reports in both Oracle BI and MS Power BI in a number of projects (ESG, blah blah, …) I have expanded my skills in a way that, has not only enabled me to contribute effectively, but also has enhanced my overall capabilities. 
Finally, as part of my commitment to professional development, I successfully completed the various tasks of the Americas Graduate Development Program, making me a Class of 2023 graduate. The knowledge I gained from this seminar has broadened my understanding of the industry and provided me with valuable insights into several corporate landscapes such as business development, innovation, project delivery, and sustainability, which I can apply to my work during my professional journey. 


Collaborate:
Collaborating with colleagues from diverse backgrounds and expertise while working on the development of the ML model during the requirement extraction and the ETL process, but also by working on the report building, has provided valuable insights into team dynamics. I learned how to adapt to different working styles, communicate effectively with the team members, and leverage our collective knowledge to achieve our common goals each time. This experience has enriched my ability to work in cross-functional teams and fostered a spirit of collaboration and effective communication: Recognizing the importance of effective communication, I dedicated time and effort to enhance this skill, and I also worked on improving my time management skills to meet deadlines and manage competing priorities efficiently.


Continue/Consider & Career:
As we look ahead, I am enthusiastic about contributing further to our team’s success by continuing to enhance the model and actively support its integration into our business processes, and explore opportunities to share my knowledge and mentor team members in machine learning techniques, expanding our team’s overall capabilities. Additionally, I am looking forward to further develop my presentation skills and public speaking, leveraging in this way my professional impact, and having these skills contribute to my career development. In this concept, I would be interested in taking on more responsibilities and continuing to develop my expertise in the process of establishing my career path. 


Living our values
For one more year, I had the privilege of immersing myself in the organization's distinctive culture, which is firmly rooted in a commitment to aiming higher, advancing initiatives, and perpetually seeking growth through innovative solutions. As a global entity, Jacobs has not only met, but indeed exceeded my expectations when it comes to embracing the principle of "We live inclusion." Diverse teams with inspiring visions and distinctive approaches are, in my view, the driving force behind Jacobs' remarkable success as a company. Furthermore, the emphasis on safety and sustainability has manifested itself through numerous actions within Jacobs and has consistently been championed during our interactions, underscoring the importance of these values to all members. My participation in the organization's global meetings has left a profound impression on me, highlighting the collective aspiration for a better future and the genuine regard for the voices of those who comprise this remarkable organization.


